feat: document LSP methods (#4197)
biomejs/website: src/content/docs/editors/introduction.mdx

---
title: Biome Language Server
description: Integrate Biome through its Language Server Protocol support, extension settings, and editor workflows.
---

> Biome has [LSP](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/) first-class support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Biome provides first-class support for the [Language Server Protocol (LSP)](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/).
```

> ## Supported requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Supported methods
```

> Below, the list of the supported features that the Biome Language Server supports:

Reviewer: A bit redundant to have supported two times in the same sentence; also, it seems the correct way to call it is a "method", according to Microsoft's LSP spec.
```suggestion
The Biome Language Server currently supports the following methods:
```

- [`textDocument/publishDiagnostics`](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/specifications/lsp/3.17/specification/#textDocument_publishDiagnostics)
- [`textDocument/codeAction`](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/specifications/lsp/3.17/specification/#textDocument_codeAction)
- [`codeAction/resolve`](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/specifications/lsp/3.17/specification/#codeAction_resolve)
- [`textDocument/formatting`](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/specifications/lsp/3.17/specification/#textDocument_formatting)
- [`textDocument/rangeFormatting`](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/specifications/lsp/3.17/specification/#textDocument_rangeFormatting)
- [`textDocument/onTypeFormatting`](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/specifications/lsp/3.17/specification/#textDocument_onTypeFormatting)
- [`textDocument/definition`](https://microsoft.github.io/language-server-protocol/specifications/lsp/3.17/specification/#textDocument_definition)

## Extension settings

> The Biome Language Server exposes the following settings, which the extension can expose to users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Biome Language Server exposes the following settings, that an extension can expose to users.
```

> For example, the Zed extension maps the [`require_configuration`](#require-configuration) setting from the setting `require_config_file`, which is defined in a JSONC file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the Zed extension maps the [`require_configuration`](#require-configuration) setting to `require_config_file`, which is defined in a JSONC file.
```

}
```

### `configuration_path`

**Type**: `string` <br />
**Default**: `null`

> A path to a custom configuration file. The path can be the folder where the `biome.json`/`biome.jsonc` is, or a path to a file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A path to a custom configuration file. The path can point to a `biome.json` or `biome.jsonc` file, or to the folder that contains it.
```

}
```

### `go_to_definition`

**Type**: `boolean`<br />
**Default**: `true`

> It enables the LSP `textDocument/definition` capabilities using the Biome module graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enables the LSP's `textDocument/definition` capabilities using the Biome module graph.
```

What's supported:
- Resolve definitions of variables declared in the same file or in another file for JavaScript (and super languages) and HTML-ish files.

> - Resolve definitions of CSS classes used in JSX files and HTML-ish files.

Reviewer: In the go-to-definition issue you use "binding" instead of "variable", is there a specific reason for the different wording?

Also, I don't hink "super languages" are really a term? Did you mean superset? e.g. TypeScript being a superset of JavaScript?

Not sure there's any other notable JavaScript supersets. Do we support these or only TypeScript? I'd write TypeScript in full if it's only TypeScript/TSX!

Author: True, it should be a superset. The "super language" thing is a bit widespread in the website. 

> In the go-to-definition issue you use "binding" instead of "variable", is there a specific reason for the different wording?

They are very similar, but we should use the term "variable" in the docs. 

> Not sure there's any other notable JavaScript supersets. Do we support these or only TypeScript? I'd write TypeScript in full if it's only TypeScript/TSX!

Just TS/TSX

Author: I would also note that we've had users that were confused. When writing "TypeScript", they asked if JS was supported

- Resolve definitions of JSX Components.

> - Resolve definitions of HTML-ish Components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Resolve definitions of JSX components.
- Resolve definitions of HTML-ish components.
```

What's out of scope:
- Resolve variables defined in dependencies.

> - Resolve variables defined in dependencies that aren't used inside the project.

Reviewer: "Imported" here is more technically accurate, no? At least that matches' the `go-to-definition` issue. 
```suggestion
- Resolve variables defined in dependencies that aren't imported in the project.
```

## Integrate Biome in an editor extension

> You can integrate Biome in your editor extension is different ways.

Reviewer: typo
```suggestion
You can integrate Biome in your editor extension in different ways.
```

### Use the LSP proxy

Biome has a command called `lsp-proxy`. When executed, Biome will spawn two processes:
- a [daemon](/internals/architecture#daemon) that does execute the requested operations;
- a server that functions as a proxy between the requests of the client - the editor - and the server - the daemon;

> If your editor is able to interact with a server and send [JSON-RPC](https://www.jsonrpc.org/) request, you only need to configure the editor run that command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your editor can interact with a server and send [JSON-RPC](https://www.jsonrpc.org/) requests, you only need to configure the editor to run that command.
```

> You can check how the [`neo-vim biome extension`](https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig/blob/master/lua/lspconfig/configs/biome.lua) does it.

Reviewer: Is `neo-vim biome extension` a command or package? I don't know much about it, but that felt like common text? So I would write it like:

```suggestion
You can check how the [Neovim Biome extension](https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig/blob/master/lua/lspconfig/configs/biome.lua) does it.
```

or even:

```suggestion
You can check how the [`nvim-lspconfig` Biome configuration](https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig/blob/master/lua/lspconfig/configs/biome.lua) does it.
```

Author: An extension, most probably. Let's go with the first suggestion

### Use `stdin`

> If your editor doesn't support LSP, you use directly the binary `biome` and call it using [standard input](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_streams#Standard_input_(stdin)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your editor doesn't support LSP, you can use the `biome` binary directly and call it using [standard input](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_streams#Standard_input_(stdin)).
```

The following commands can be called via standard input:
- [`format`](/reference/cli/#biome-format)
- [`lint`](/reference/cli/#biome-lint)
- [`check`](/reference/cli/#biome-check)

Biome will return the new output (or the original output if changes haven't occurred) to [standard output](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_streams#Standard_output_(stdout)) and the diagnostics to [standard error](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_streams#Standard_error_(stderr)).

When you use `stdin`, you must pass the `--stdin-file-path` option. The file `path` **doesn't need to exist** in your file system, it can be any name. **What's important** is to provide the correct file extension, so Biome knows **how to treat** your file.

> It's the editor's responsibility to locate the resolve the path of the binary and then call it when it's needed. The binaries are shipped to npm based on the architectures and OS that we support:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's the editor's responsibility to locate and resolve the path of the binary and then call it when it's needed. The binaries are shipped to npm based on the architectures and OS that we support:
```

- `@biomejs/cli-darwin-arm64`
- `@biomejs/cli-darwin-x64`
- `@biomejs/cli-linux-arm64`
- `@biomejs/cli-linux-x64`
- `@biomejs/cli-win32-arm64`
- `@biomejs/cli-win32-x64`

The binary name is `biome` or `biome.exe`, and it can be found in the root directory of the library, e.g.: `@biomejs/cli-darwin-arm64/biome`, `@biomejs/cli-win32-x64/biome.exe`.

> The language server exposes [some options](/editors/introduction#extension-settings) that editor extension can exposse to users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The language server exposes [some options](/editors/introduction#extension-settings) that editor extensions can expose to users.
```

Enables the LSP's `textDocument/definition` capabilities using the Biome module graph.

What's supported:
- Resolve definitions of variables declared in the same file or in another file for JavaScript, TypeScript, JSX, TSX, and HTML-ish files.
- Resolve definitions of CSS classes used in JSX files and HTML-ish files.

> - Resolve definitions of JSX components.

Reviewer: I assume all these work in TSX as well? Just to add a bit more clarity and avoid someone thinking that because TSX was mentioned above but not below means it has partial support in that regard.
```suggestion
- Resolve definitions of CSS classes used in JSX/TSX files and HTML-ish files.
- Resolve definitions of JSX/TSX components.
```

If you decide to use the daemon, you're also responsible to restart/kill the process with the [`stop`](/reference/cli#biome-stop) command, to avoid having ghost processes.
:::

## Language Server logs

> The Biome daemon saves logs in your file system. Logs are stored in a folder called `biome-logs`. The path of  this folder changes based on your operative system:

Reviewer: Not added in this PR, but typo
```suggestion
The Biome daemon saves logs in your file system. Logs are stored in a folder called `biome-logs`. The path of  this folder changes based on your operating system:
```
